Welcome back in in the previous lesson we saw how we can traverse through the dawn and we can get access
to all of this amazing information that we can make use of within our Javascript.
So this lesson I want to do something a little bit different I wanted to introduce you to the javascript
word this.
So what this does is I'm going to make several buttons here and it's going to I was going to type click
one and I can't get rid of this part right now as well.
So let's create a bunch of buttons and they're all going to link to the same function.
And now let's go down to the javascript.
We're going to make use of the function so we can actually get rid of this one here because we don't
need that one anymore.
So let's create that function so function and my fun.
And what I want to do is I actually want to differentiate between what actually got clicked.
So whether we've clicked one two or three we don't know because we're all all of this all of them are
actually initiating that same function.
So we want to be able to differentiate between all of these different values and be able to tell actually
which one is clicking through.
So one to pass through a value here and what we'll do is we'll just put it to the here UML
and let's go out and refreshed.
And what I want to do actually I want to be able to pick up these values that I've got here under value
so click 1 2 and 3 where you use the keyword this and what this will do is this will actually allow
us to pass to my function the value of the current element that's being clicked and we'll pass it in
as a value of t.
And we know that we can do values so we know that from previously where it can do document get element
by ID.
We could grab the idea of them even though these ones don't have ID but we could set up Id use on them
and then we could get value and so on and we could pass the IDs in here on that click.
So there's a number of ways that we could do this but the easiest way is to use this.
Now let me show you what actually is going to happen here now.
So let's go and refresh it again.
And when I click one I get the value of click one click to get the value of click to click three.
I get the value of click three.
So let's take a closer look within the con. what's actually happening here.
So when I click it I got a console log out the entire value of t.
So you can see and we can take a closer look at it and see what's actually happening behind the scenes.
So click one.
We see that we get that entire object entire element being sent in to the console.
So we're picking up everything.
So what if I do console directories so we know that with console directory we can actually see more
details.
So let's open that up again.
It now we've got that element and we've got access to all of this information that's contained within
the element.
So we've got information so we've got the default value we've got the height the top the width.
So where it's located we've got the base you or I so we can access all of this information.
We can also traverse through with next sibling and next element sibling or we're going to look more
on that.
And we also see that the click event is there so that one's registered the on click event is there ready
to go.
We can see that the parent is the form so we cannot get access to that.
So really there is a lot of information that's contained within this and basically all this is doing
is it's actually saving us the trouble of going out into the dorm and selecting it.
We're actually passing it as an argument when ever this function gets fired off.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video and create some input buttons create some values for
those input buttons and when the button gets clicked I want you to update the value of the button.
So once the button has been clicked change the value that's being presented in here instead of click
1 2 and 3.
I want it to say clicked in all uppercase and I'll show you the solution to that.
Coming up so if you have an opportunity to try it for yourself and the solution to this is actually
going to be really easy because all we have to do is set the T value because we already have the current
element as the object t.
And it's already connected within the dorm.
We're already passing this information so it's already been identified.
We want to go out into the dorm and select it.
We're passing it here and using this and then we're picking the value up of this with a..
So it's the same thing that we did over here where we set output document get Ellen by the wrapper.
We're placing it within a variable and that gives us access to that particular object within the dorm.
And the same thing here.
So all we have to do is update the value.
So just as we are outputting the value here into the inner h html we can also reassign the value to
it.
So let's refresh it and clicked.
So we see that we can change the value to it.
And this is really powerful because this gives us more information and access to each individual element.
And you see we're still running that same function.
So we don't have to have multiple functions in order to accomplish this by using the word.
This we're passing in that entire element information as an object within the function and then we can
make use of that anywhere within the function.
So do try and vote for yourself and also try to get that type I give him some ideas grabbed the ideas
and try it for yourself and get comfortable with passing all of that information that's contained within
this.